well Kentucky Derby is coming up and
we're gonna be having a little Cinco de
drinko slash Kentucky Derby party or the
girls are gonna be bringing their big
hats sombreros whatever so I need a
drinkable beer for this party
and I thought that an IPA will probably
be a nice drinkable beer that I can
bring over so here's what I got it's a
very simple recipe I've got 11 and 3/4
pounds of pale malt that's us and then
I'm gonna be using point 15 pounds of
victory malt which is just over 2 ounces
and about point four pounds of Karen
Munich 60 Lovibond
and four pounds is about just under 7
ounces of malt for my hops
I just got an ounce of each cascade
Amarillo hops and Chinook
and then for my yeast I'm gonna be using
whyis 1056 just made a two liter starter
last night and that's pretty much it
this beer is gonna be a nice one to brew
after doing all these decoction matches
it's going to be a simple infusion mash
so I'm getting it started so I started
out by adding all of my grains into a
mash tun and I added 1/2 a teaspoon of
calcium chloride and half a teaspoon of
gypsum salt and this is because I'm
gonna be using reverse osmosis water I
set my water temperature about 164
degrees and I started mashing in now
with the strike water at this
temperature I was shooting for about 150
degrees Fahrenheit you can brew this
beer either by mashing in at about 149
to about 151 degrees anywhere around
that temperature will give you a fairly
dry beer so 150 was my goal so I did
enough water to cover my grain so it was
a fairly medium medium thick mash and
the nice thing about a beer like this
it's a simple infusion mash so you just
set your temperature and you just let it
rest now after about 15 minutes of
resting I want to check my
and then after that I just got to make
sure that my temperature stays right
around 149 degrees and that's pretty
much where I stayed throughout the mash
so I missed this for about 90 minutes to
make sure that I got full starsha sure
conversing and then at that point I went
ahead and mashed out so I reversed the
temperature up to about 170 degrees then
I just recirculated so I started
draining the ward anything that came up
cloudy went back into the mash and then
as soon as my works are coming out clear
then I started to collect all of those
runnings to be out on our half to during
the mash tun and I fly sparks for this
one so I added water as I was straining
the work at that point I start to bring
this to a boil so you just want to show
what a boil over
looks like the foam starts to build up
and if you don't stop it it'll just keep
going until it pretty much spills over
you know there were two controllers the
easiest ways to just turn the heat down
and basically open up some sort of
airspace so that your ward is able to
breathe so I build this for about sixty
minutes and I did my first set of hop
additions thirty minutes into the boil
so I headed point 75 ounces of all of
all my hops so the Amarillo and Cascade
hops and then when I had about 50
minutes left in the boil
I added my aroma hops so I added about a
quarter of an ounce of all my hops again
so I'm RELIGIOUS and Cascade hops just
give it a stir finished the boil and
went ahead and cooled the wort down to
70 degrees and then I just went ahead
and transferred the beer to my fermenter
and pitch my yeast and this beer I'm
gonna be fermenting at 65 degrees
Fahrenheit
now with this beer I probably failed the
carboy a little too high and didn't give
it enough headspace so it started to
over foam but that's alright I just
ditched the airlock for the first couple
of days and I just plan on either
putting the airlock back on
I either skim off the foam a little bit
or I'll just set up a blow
off tube either way it should be fine so
that's it I'll let you guys know how
this turns out